I never feel I have to clarify when I'm
reading something that's written down as
opposed to when I'm speaking in my own
voice I think it's clear enough to you
guys there's some subtle change in the
assonance and consonance of my words I'm
gonna read you a statement right now
that I've got screenshot it here and for
those of you who are over 25 ask
yourself when in my life did this type
of political discourse become normal
quote today I stand with women and
people of all bodies races sexualities
ages abilities nationalities religions
and species I stand with people of all
species okay okay I hear you I quote I
stand with women who make their voices
heard and also women who have yet to
find their voice I stand with the women
of today past and future generations I
stand with the women who were exploited
by capitalism greed and those who try to
control the context for this is of
course Instagram and it's a yeah it's a
picture of a good-looking young woman on
Instagram this is in effect this is the
ideological decoration next to a
flattering picture of oneself posted on
Instagram this goes on this goes on for
a few paragraphs and the crucial verb
here is stand with stand up for stand I
just asked you when did this become you
know mainstream even the dominant mode
of political discourse where you talk
about standing up and standing with and
standing for someone or some thing when
you are sitting on your ass doing
thing now the person who wrote this I
actually do have some respect for I have
some respect for her political activism
going back about five years she used to
be a really important vegan activist
she's someone I still have some some
respect for but you know at any age
young or old people can start to slip
from the world of nonfiction into the
world of fiction and the internet seems
to prompt you just by presenting you
with a chalkboard to fill up with a
blank canvas it seems to prompt you to
give a justification of yourself to even
just think about the format of Instagram
if you created a new Instagram account
what is it it's a blank slate for you to
declare who you are
and people seem to be drawn in step by
step to making this kind of declaration
now I think real political activity real
political activism real political
organization real humanitarian work so
I'm saying activity I want to include
that I think it's humbling when I lived
in Laos Laos is a poverty-stricken
war-torn country in Southeast Asia it's
currently a communist dictatorship the
United States of America dropped more
bombs on Laos and they dropped on
Germany in World War two country facing
tremendous challenges still today when I
was there medical doctors were getting
paid fifteen US dollars a month forty
five US dollars a month that kind of pay
range and then white people would show
up and complain that the doctors were
corrupt and taking bribes their salary
was not enough to pay for bus fare it
was ridiculous that has changed a little
bit by the way I've done some reading
about the the changing political and
economic conditions just lately in Laos
um when I lived in Laos never once did I
make did I make a statement like this
that I've just caught you never once did
I say I stand with the lotion people or
I stand for the lotion people and
sometimes lotion people said very
flattering and strange things about me
I've told Melissa anecdotes about the
few times and people said to me
positively they said that I was WOW they
referred to me as being Lau and me as
being a white Wow and so on a white
lotion you know whatever that means I'm
not gonna roll my eyes there but you
know it meant something to them and I
had to stand there and think whoa what
does that mean to me cuz I'm not really
on your side guys I'm an outside
observer but I'm coming to this
humanitarian work in this research and
trying to make the world a better place
with a totally foreign agenda you have
every reason to be suspicious of me as
an outsider and what I want for your
country in its future you can decide if
my ideas are good or bad but you know I
mean even my values about ecology for
example it's not their values they don't
feel that way about cutting down the
forest they don't feel that way about
killing every fish in the river they
don't feel that way about hunting down
and killing the last Tigers in the
jungle so that's my agenda I came here
and I care about the elephant's and the
Tigers and ecology and you guys don't so
that's my foreign value of imposing even
what I have to say about Buddhism I'm
there studying the manuscripts in the
library nobody else is and local people
aren't studying those manuscripts of
those history so you know there's a
there's a radical disconnect and look if
I had met someone even someone who was
actually in Laos doing that kind of
humanitarian work if they'd spoken with
this kind of rhetoric I would have
regarded them as insane and I probably
would have responded in a kind of
compassionate way of trying to talk it
through with them and say well look you
know
keep this in perspective you know a
large part of what she says that she
says some stuff about indigenous people
and other species but a large part of is
about women women's rights women being
sexually exploited so you guys know I
did a lot of research about slavery
contemporary slavery sex slavery
trafficking in human lives for sexual
exploitation also slavery for factories
and things like that to various forms of
slavery that exist today in Cambodia
Laos Thailand Vietnam in that in that
area the potential the scope for
humanitarian work is very very limited
and I can remember trying to give people
the talk who were kind of new in the
game and I was like look you know this
stuff isn't hard to find like it's not
hard to find the brothels it's not hard
to find the pimps it's not hard to find
underage prostitutes it's not hard to
find you legal forms of prostitution and
contrast illegal and it's not even hard
to find you know captive prostitution of
the various kinds that exist but you got
to ask yourself are you Batman and I was
not joking I had that conversation and
you can imagine they're shocked but I
said you know like let's let's move past
this kind of this kind of verbiage I
stand for I stand with exploited women
or are you actually gonna show up and
and solve the problem with your fists
you're gonna you're gonna punch somebody
out you know what you're gonna you know
you're gonna burn down the brothel
you're gonna kill the pimp and you know
if you do if you do this kind of thing
let's say you go push me you know this
is human nature nine times out of ten if
you punch out the pimp the prostitute is
gonna run over and weep and say why did
you why do you probably she's gonna be
helping him she's probably gonna be
attacking you she's probably gonna feel
that the person who exploits her is also
the person who defends her and provides
for her she probably has some kind of
relationship with
those people even though it is partly a
relationship of of exploitation this
could be very very complex situations to
wait into an anecdote have already told
here so I'll say it very briefly I was
once in the room when the directors of a
Christian charity were talking about
their efforts to be Batman by rescuing
children who had been sold by their
parents so most of those arrangements
were not sex slavery
I would guess based on the description
maybe some of the more but you know soon
as they'd sell their children to kind of
work in factories and this kind of thing
but sure sex slavery is very much on the
on the table so this is Cambodia
specifically now sure of the whole
region and this Christian charity
director said well when we first got
here we thought we would just buy these
children back like they've been sold
into slavery and they've come in and
raised the money and buy them back and
give them back to their parents and when
we did that the parents sold the
children again you know this isn't a
problem Batman could solve even if you
think you are Batman so it's not just
the problem of wake up and admit that
you're not Batman now my parents were
left-wing extremists they were not to
even call them communists is too vague
they were not moderate confidence not
representative of means Jew come they
were extremists even within communist
discourse so to be fair
someone like Noam Chomsky he called
himself an anarchist he really
represents more mainstream communism
frankly he wouldn't be he wouldn't be
happy to hear me say that was the truth
no Noam Chomsky supported the Khmer
Rouge supported Pol Pot in Cambodia
toggle it's standing for and standing
with someone you stood for Pol Pot
junkie and I already did video starting
with that um you know communism
left-wing extremism I would even say
forms of socialism a lot of
they do perpetuate the idea that you can
solve problems with your fists they
perpetuate the idea that the way to end
poverty is violence against the rich for
example and it doesn't just end there
that all you need is violence against
the factory owners to set the factory
workers free and so on and so forth
through every every part of society and
to be fair the unique historical
experience the United States of America
obviously we talk about african-american
slaves a little bit of truth to that
there's a little bit of truth that all
you needed to liberate the slaves was to
Massacre the slave owners it's not what
happened in the United States America
but you can have some situations of
exploitation that are so extreme that
sure you know you can talk about the
role of violence in an ex slavery United
States fought a civil war and as you
guys know the Civil War was not enough
it was not sufficient but what I see now
on the Internet again and again
sometimes from people I have some
respect for some time sure you have seen
this also dear viewer on Instagram may
be here on YouTube is really this
strange echo of the idea that you can
grandstand that you can present yourself
as someone greater than you are by
participating in a kind of abstract and
hallowed threat of violence that's what
this is to me saying you stand up for
and you stand with these oppressed
people I think what what you're really
trying to tell me is you you'd kill
somebody if you could that's really what
I get from this is that you want to
participate in the myth of a revolution
a rebellion of violence solving this
problem that you want to stand with the
oppressed when they in the imaginary
communist revolution or whatever it is
whether you've thought about that
clearly when the oppressed stand up
against the oppressors
you want to be on the side that's
winning and it's sad and it's sick
because the internet keeps you trapped
in this self-serving ego trap instead of
having what I think of as the humbling
experience that I had not just in
Cambodia not just in Laos but even when
I got involved with local politics very
humbling at Toronto City Hall